
CHAPTER I 

LOOMINGS 

CALL me Ishmael. Some years ago never mind how 
long precisely having little or no money in my purse, 
and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought 
I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the 
world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and 
regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself 
growing grim about the mouth ; whenever it is a damp, 
drizzly November in my soul ; whenever I find myself 
involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bring- 
ing up the rear of every funeral I meet ; and especially 
whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that 
it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from 
deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically 
knocking people's hats off then, I account it high time 
to get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for 
pistol and ball. With a philosophical flourish Cato throws 
himself upon his sword ; I quietly take to the ship. 
There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew 
it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, 
cherish very nearly the same feelings toward the ocean 
with me. 

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, 
belted round by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs 
commerce surrounds it with her surf. Right and left, the 
streets take you waterward. Its extreme down -town is the 
battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and 

VOL. I. A 



2 MOBY-DICK 

cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of 
sight of land. Look at the crowds of water -gazers there. 

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath after- 
noon. Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and 
from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What do you 
see ? Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, 
stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed 
in ocean reveries. Some leaning against the spiles ; 
some seated upon the pier-heads ; some looking over 
Vhe bulwarks of ships from China ; some high aloft in 
the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward 
peep. But these are all landsmen ; of week days pent 
up in lath and plaster tied to counters, nailed to benches, 
clinched to desks. How then is this ? Are the green 
fields gone ? What do they here ? 

But look ! here come more crowds, pacing straight for 
the water, and seemingly bound for a dive. Strange ! 
Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the 
land ; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses 
will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the 
water as they possibly can without falling in. And there 
they stand miles of them leagues. Inlanders all, they 
come from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues north, 
east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell me, 
does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses 
of all those ships attract them thither ? 

Once more. Say, you are in the country ; in some 
high land of lakes. Take almost any path you please, 
and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves 
you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in it. 
Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his 
deepest reveries stand that man on his legs, set his feet 
a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water 
there be in all that region. Should you ever be athirst 
in the great American desert, try this experiment, if your 



LOOMINGS 3 

caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical 
professor. Yes, as everyone knows, meditation andli 
water are wedded forever. 

But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the 
dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of 
romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco. What 
is the chief element he employs ? There stand his trees, 
each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix 
were within ; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep 
his cattle ; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy 
smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, 
reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in 
their hillside blue. But though the picture lies thus 
tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs 
like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were 
vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the 
magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, 
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee -deep 
among tiger-lilies what is the one charm wanting ?- 
Water there is not a drop of water there ! Were Niagara 
but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand 
miles to see it ? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, 
upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate 
whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or 
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach ? 
Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust 
healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to 
sea ? Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did 
you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first ; 
told that you and your ship were now out of sight of ' 
land ? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy ? 
Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own 
brother of Jove ? Surely all this is not without meaning. 
And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, 
who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild 



4 MOBY-DICK 

image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was 
drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see in all 
rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable 
phantom of life ; and this is the key to it all. 

Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea 
whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin 
to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have 
it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger. For to 
go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a 
purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Be- 
sides, passengers get sea-sick grow quarrelsome don't 
sleep of nights do not enjoy themselves much, as a 
general thing ; no, I never go as a passenger ; nor, 
though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a 
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the 
glory and distinction of such offices to those who like 
them. For my part, I abominate all honourable respect- 
able toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind what- 
soever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care 
of myself, without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, 
schooners, and what not. And as for going as cook, 
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a 
cook being a sort of officer on shipboard yet, somehow, 
I never fancied broiling fowls ; though once broiled, 
judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and 
peppered, there is no one who will speak more respect- 
fully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I 
will. It is out of the idolatrous do tings of the old 
Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that 
you see the mummies of those creatures in their huge 
bake-houses the pyramids. 

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right 
before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft 
there to the royal mast-head. True, they rather order 
me about some, and make me jump from spar to spar, 



LOOMINGS 5 

like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this 
sort of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's 
sense of honour, particularly if you come of an old estab- 
lished family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Ran- 
dolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if just 
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have 
been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the 
tallest boys stand in awe of you. The transition is a 
keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor, 
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics 
to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears 
off hi time. 

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders 
me to get a broom and sweep down the decks ? What 
does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the 
scales of the New Testament ? Do you think the arch- 
angel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I 
promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that 
particular instance ? Who ain/t a slave ? Tell me that. 
Well, then, however the~old^sea -captains may order me 
about however they may thump and punch me about, 
I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right ; 
that everybody else is one way or other served in much the 
same way either in a physical or metaphysical point of 
view, that is ; and so the universal thump is passed 
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder- 
blades, and be content. 

Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make 
a point of paying me for my trouble, whereas they never 
pay passengers a single penny that I ever heard of. On 
the contrary, passengers themselves must pay. And 
there is all the difference in the world between paying 
and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most 
uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves 
entailed upon us. But being paid, what will compare 



6 MOBY-DICK 

with it ? The urbane activity with which a man receives 
money is really marvellous, considering that we so 
earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, 
and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven. 
Ah ! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition ! 

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the 
wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle deck. 
For as in this world, head-winds are far more prevalent 
than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate 
the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the com- 
modore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at 
second hand from the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks 
he breathes it first ; but not so. In much the same 
way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many other 
things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. 
But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt 
the sea as a merchant sailor, I should now take it into 
my head to go on a whaling voyage ; this the invisible 
police-officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveil- 
lance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in 
some unaccountable way he can better answer than any 
one else. And, doubtless, my going on this whaling 
voyage formed part of the grand programme of Provi- 
dence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in 
as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more exten- 
sive performances. I take it that this part of the bill 
must have run something like this : 

' Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the 
United States. 

' WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. 

1 BLOODY BATTLE IN AFGHANISTAN.' 

Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those 
stage managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby 



LOOMINGS 7 

part of a whaling voyage, when others were set down 
for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and easy 
parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces 
though I cannot tell why this was exactly ; yet, now that 
I recall all the circumstances, I think I can see a little 
into the springs and motives which, being cunningly 
presented to me under various disguises, induced me to 
set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me 
into the delusion that it was a choice resulting from my 
own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment. 

Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea 
of the great whale himself. Such a gortentous and 
mysterious monster roused all my curiosity. Then the 
wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk ; 
the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale ; these, 
with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian 
sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my wish. With 
other men, perhaps, such things would not have been 
inducements ; but as for me, I am tormented with an 
everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail for- 
bidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring 
what is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could 
still be social with it would they let me since it is 
but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of 
the place one lodges in. 

By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage 
was welcome ; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world 
swung open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to 
my purpose, two and two there floated into my inmost 
soul, endless processions of the whale, and, midmost of 
them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in 
the air. 




CHAPTER II 

THE CARPET-BAG 

I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked 
it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the 
Pacific. Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly 
arrived in New Bedford. It was on a Saturday night in 
December. Much was I disappointed upon learning 
that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, 
and that no way of reaching that place would offer, till 
the following Monday. 

As most young candidates for the pains and penalties 
of whaling stop at this same New Bedford, thence to 
embark on their voyage, it may as well be related that I 5 
for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was made 
up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because 
there was a fine, boisterous something about everything 
connected with that famous old island, which amazingly 
pleased me. Besides, though New Bedford has of late 
been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and 
though in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much 
behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original the 
Tyre of this Carthage ; the place where the first dead 
American whale was stranded. Where else but from 
Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red Men, 
first sally out in canoes to give chase to the leviathan ? 
And where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adven- 
turous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported 
cobble-stones so goes the story to throw at the whales, 



THE CARPET-BAG 9 

in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk 
a harpoon from the bowsprit ? 

Now having a night, a day, and still another night 
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark 
for my destined port, it became a matter of concernment 
where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a very 
dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, 
bitingly cold and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. 
With anxious grapnelsJE had sounded my pocket, and only 
brought up a few pieces of silver. So, wherever you go, 
Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a 
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the 
gloom toward the north with the darkness toward the 
south wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to 
lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire 
the price, and don't be too particular. 

With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the 
sign of 'The Crossed Harpoons ' but it looked too expen- 
sive and jolly there. Further on, from the bright red 
windows of the ' Sword-Fish Inn,' there came such fer- 
vent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow 
and ice from before the house, for everywhere else the 
congealed frost lay ten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic 
pavement, rather weary for me, when I struck my foot 
against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorse- 
less service the soles of mv boots were in a most miserable 

V 

plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing 
one moment to watch the broad glare in the street, and 
hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within. But go i 
on, Ishmael, said I at last ; don't you hear ? get away l 
from before the door ; your patched boots are stopping 
the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the 
streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, 
were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns. 

Such dreary streets ! blocks of blackness, not houses, 



10 MOBY-DICK 

on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a candle 
moving about in a tomb. At this hour of the night, of 
the last day of the week, that quarter of the town proved 
all but deserted. But presently I carne to a smoky 
light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of 
which stood invitingly open. It had a careless look, as 
if it were meant for the uses of the public ; so, entering, 
the first thing I did was to stumble over an ash-box in 
the porch. Ha ! thought I, ha, as the flying particles 
almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed 
city, Gomorrah ? But ' The Cfossed Harpoons ' and 
4 The Sword-Fish ' ? this, then, must needs be the sign 
of ' The Trap. ' However, I picked myself up , and hearing 
a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, 
interior door. 

It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. 
A hundred black faces turned round in their rows to peer ; 
and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book 
in a pulpit. It was a negro church ; and the preacher's 
text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weep- 
ing and wailing and teeth -gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, 
muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the 
sign of ' The Trap ' ! 

Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far 
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air ; 
and looking up, saw a swinging sign over the door with 
a white painting upon it, faintly representing a tall straight 
jet of misty spray, and these words underneath ' The 
Spouter-Inn : Peter Coffin.' 

Coffin ? Spouter ? Rather ominous in that particu- 
lar connection, thought I. But it is a common name in 
Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an 
emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and 
the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the 
dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might 



THE CARPET-BAG 11 

have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt dis- 
trict, and as the swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort 
of creak to it, I thought that here was the very spot for 
cheap lodgings, and the best of pea-coffee. 

It was a queer sort of place a gable-ended old house, 
one side palsied as it were, and leaning over sadly. It 
stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous 
wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it 
did about poor Paul's tossed craft. Euroclydon, never- 
theless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to anyone indoors, 
with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed. 4 In 
judging of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon,' 
says an old writer of whose works I possess the only 
copy extant ' it maketh a marvellous difference, 
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where 
the frost is all on the outside, or whether thou observest 
it from that Cashless window, where the frost is on both 
sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier.' 
True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my 
mind old black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these 
eyes are windows, and this body of mine is the house. 
What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the 
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there. 
But it 's too late to make any improvements now. The 
universe is finished ; the cope-stone is on, and the chips 
were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there, 
chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, 
and shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might 
plug up both ears with rags, and put a corn-cob into his 
mouth, and yet that would not keep out the tempestuous 
Euroclydon. Euroclydon ! says old Dives, in his red 
silken wrapper (he had a redder one afterward) pooh, 
pooh ! What a fine frosty night ; how Orion glitters ; 
what northern lights ! Let them talk of their oriental 
summer climes of everlasting conservatories ; give me 



12 MOBY-DICK 

the privilege of making my own summer with my own 
coals. 

But what thinks Lazarus ? Can he warm his blue 
hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights ? 
Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here ? 
Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along 
the line of the equator ; yea, ye gods ! go down to the 
fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost ? 

Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the 
curbstone before the door of Dives, this is more wonderful 
than that an iceberg should be moored to one of the 
Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar 
in an ice-palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president 
of a temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of 
orphans. 

But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a- 
whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come. Let 
us scrape the ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort 
of a place this ' Spouter ' may be. 



CHAPTER III 

THE SPOTTTER-INN 

ENTERING that gable -ended Spouter-Inn, you found 
yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned 
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some con- 
demned old craft. On one side hung a very large oil- 
painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, 
that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, 
it was only by diligent study and a series of systematic 
visits to it, and careful inquiry of the neighbours, that 
you could any way arrive at an understanding of its 
purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and 
shadows, that at first you almost thought some ambitious 
young artist, in the time of the New England hags, had 
endeavoured to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint 
of much and earnest contemplation, and oft-repeated 
ponderings, and especially by throwing open the little 
window toward the back of the entry, you at last come 
to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might 
not be altogether unwarranted. 

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a 
long, limber, portentous, black mass of something hover- 
ing in the centre of the picture over three blue, dim, 
perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy, 
soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous 
man distracted. Yet there was a sort of indefinite, half- 
attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly 
froze you to it, till you in voluntarily, took an oath with 
yourself to find out what that marvellous painting meant. 

is 



14 MOBY-DICK 

Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would 
dart you through. It 's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. 
It 's the unnatural combat of the four primal elements. 
It 's a blasted heath. It 's a Hyperborean winter scene. 
It 's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time. 
But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous 
something in the picture's midst. That once found out, 
and all the rest were plain. But stop ; does it not bear 
a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish ? even the great 
leviathan himself ? 

In fact, the artist's design seemed this : a final theory 
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions 
of many aged persons with whom I conversed upon the 
subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a great 
hurricane ; the half-foundered ship weltering there with 
its three dismantled masts alone visible ; and an exasper- 
ated whale, purposing to spring clean over the craft, is 
in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the three 
mast-heads. 

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with 
a heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some 
were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory 
saws ; others were tufted with knots of human hair ; and 
one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round 
like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long- 
armed mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and 
wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could 
ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, 
horrifying implement. Mixed with these were rusty 
old whaling-lances and harpoons all broken and deformed. 
Some were storied weapons. With this once long lance, 
now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain 
kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And 
that harpoon so like a corkscrew now was flung in 
Javan seas, and run away with by a whale, years after- 



THE SPOUTER-INN 15 

ward slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron 
entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning 
in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last 
was found imbedded in the hump. 

Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low- 
arched way cut through what in old times must have 
been a great central chimney with fire-places all round 
you enter the public room. A still duskier place is this, 
with such low ponderous beams above, and such old 
wrinkled planks beneath, that you would almost fancy 
you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a 
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked 
so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like 
table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty 
rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. 
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a 
dark-looking den the bar a rude attempt at a right 
whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the vast 
arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might 
almost drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, 
ranged round with old decanters, bottles, flasks ; and in 
those jaws of swift destruction, like another cursed Jonah 
(by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little 
withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the 
sailors deliriums and death. 

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his 
poison. Though true cylinders without within, the 
villainous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered down- 
ward to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians rudely 
pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets. 
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny ; to this 
a penny more ; and so on to the full glass the Cape 
Horn measure, which you may gulp down for a shilling. 
Upon entering the place I found a number of young 
seamen gathered about a table, examining by a dim light 



16 MOBY-DICK 

divers speiimens of skrimshander. I sought the land- 
lord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with 
a room, received for answer that his house was full not 
a bed unoccupied. ' But avast, 5 he added, tapping his 
forehead, ' you hain't no objections to sharin* a har- 
pooneer 's blanket, have ye ? I s'pose you are goin' a- 
whalin 5 , so you 'd better get used to that sort of thing. 5 

I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed ; that 
if I should ever do so, it would depend upon who the 
harpooneer might be, and that if he (the landlord) really 
had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not 
decidedly objectionable, why, rather than wander further 
about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put 
up with the half of any decent man 5 s blanket. 

' I thought so. All right ; take a seat. Supper ? 
you want supper ? Supper 5 11 be ready directly. 5 

I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like 
a bench on the Battery. At one end a ruminating tar 
was still further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping 
over and diligently working away at the space between 
his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, 
but he didn't make much headway, I thought. 

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our 
meal in an adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland 
no fire at all the landlord said he couldn't afford it. 
Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding 
sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey-jackets, 
and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half- 
frozen fingers. But the fare was of the most substantial 
kind not only meat and potatoes, but dumplings ; good 
heavens ! dumplings for supper ! One young fellow in 
a green box-coat addressed himself to these dumplings 
hi a most direful manner. 

' My boy,' said the landlord, ' you '11 have the night- 
mare to a dead sartainty.' 



THE SPOUTER-INN 17 

'Landlord,' I whispered, w that ain't the harpooneer, 
is it ? ' 

1 Oh, no/ said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, 
4 the harpooneer is a dark - complexioned chap. He 
never eats dumplings, he don't he eats nothing but 
steaks, and likes 'em rare.' 

' The devil he does, ' says I. ' Where is that harpooneer ? 
Is he here ? ' 

' He '11 be here afore long,' was the answer. 

I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of 
this ' dark-complexioned ' harpooneer. At any rate, I 
made up my mind that if it so turned out that we should 
sleep together, he must undress and get into bed before 
I did. 

Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, 
when, knowing not what else to do with myself, I resolved 
to spend the rest of the evening as a looker-on. 

Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting 
up, the landlord cried, ' That 's the Grampus's crew. I 
seed her reported in the offing this morning ; a three 
years' voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys ; now we '11 
have the latest news from the Feegees.' 

A tramping of sea-boots was heard in the entry ; the 
door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners 
enough. Enveloped in their shaggy watch-coats, and 
with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all be- 
darned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, 
they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They 
had just landed from their boat, and this was the first 
house they entered. No wonder, then, that they made 
a straight wake for the whale's mouth the bar when 
the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon 
poured them out brimmers all round. One complained 
of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah mixed 
him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he 

VOL. I. B 



18 MOBY-DICK 

swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs 
whatsoever, never mind of how long standing, or whether 
caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the weather-side 
of an ice -island. 

The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it 
generally does even with the arrantest topers newly 
landed from sea, and they began capering about most 
obstreperously. 

I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat 
aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to spoil the 
hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon 
the whole he refrained from making as much noise as the 
rest. This man interested me at once ; and since the sea- 
gods had ordained that he should soon become my ship- 
mate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this 
narrative is concerned), I will here venture upon a little 
description of him. He stood full six feet in height, with 
noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have 
seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply 
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the 
contrast ; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated 
some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much 
joy. His voice at once announced that he was a 
Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must 
be one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian 
Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry of his companions 
had mounted to its height, this man slipped away unob- 
served, and I saw no more of him till he became my 
comrade on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was 
missed by his shipmates, and being, it seems, for some 
reason a huge favourite with them, they raised a cry of 
' Bulkington ! Bulkington ! where 5 s Bulkington ? ' and 
darted out of the house in pursuit of him. 

It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming 
almost supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began 



THE SPOUTER-INN 19 

to congratulate myself upon a little plan that had occurred 
to me just previous to the entrance of the seamen. 

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you 
would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother. 
I don't know how it is, but people like to be private when 
they are sleeping. And when it comes to sleeping with 
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, 
and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections 
indefinitely multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason 
why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than 
anybody else ; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at 
sea, than bachelor kings do ashore. To be sure, they 
all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your 
own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, 
and sleep in your own skin. 

The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I 
abominated the thought of sleeping with him. It was 
fair to presume that being a harpooneer, his linen or 
woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the tidiest, 
certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over. 
Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer 
ought to be home and going bedward. Suppose now, 
he should tumble in upon me at midnight how could I 
tell from what vile hole he had been coming ? 

' Landlord ! I Ve changed my mind about that 
harpooneer. I shan't sleep with him. I '11 try the bench 
here.' 

' Just as you please ; I 'm sorry I can't spare ye a 
tablecloth for a mattress, and it 's a plaguy rough board 
here ' feeling of the knots and notches. ' But wait 
a bit, Skrimshander ; I Ve got a carpenter's plane there 
in the bar wait, I say, and I '11 make ye snug enough.' 
So saying he procured the plane ; and with his old silk 
handkerchief first dusting the bench, vigorously set to 
planing away at my bed, the while grinning like an ape. 



20 MOBY-DICK 

The shavings flew right and left ; till at last the plane- 
iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The 
landlord was near spraining his wrist, and I told him for 
heaven's sake to quit the bed was soft enough to suit 
me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world 
could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering 
up the shavings with another grin, and throwing them 
into the great stove in the middle of the room, he went 
about his business, and left me in a brown study. 

I now took the measure of the bench, and found that 
it was a foot too short ; but that could be mended with 
a chair. But it was a foot too narrow, and the other 
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the 
planed one so there was no yoking them. I then placed 
the first bench lengthwise along the only clear space 
against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my 
back to settle down in. But I soon found that there 
came such a draught of cold air over me from under the 
sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, 
especially as another current from the rickety door met 
the one from the window, and both together formed a 
series of small whirlwinds in the immediate vicinity of the 
spot where I had thought to spend the night. 

The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, 
couldn't I steal a march on him bolt his door inside, and 
jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the most violent 
knockings ? It seemed no bad idea ; but upon second 
thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what 
the next morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, 
the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all ready 
to knock me down ! 

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible 
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other 
person's bed, I began to think that after all I might be 
cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against this unknown 



THE SPOQTER-INN 21 

harpooneer. Thinks I, I '11 wait awhile ; he must be 
dropping in before long. 1 11 have a good look at him 
then, and perhaps we may become jolly good bedfellows 
after all there 's no telling. 

But though the other boarders kept coming in by 
ones, twos, and threes, and going to bed, yet no sign of 
my harpooneer. 

4 Landlord ! ' said I, ' what sort of a chap is he does 
he always keep such late hours ? ' It was now hard 
upon twelve o'clock. 

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, 
and seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond 
my comprehension. ' No,' he answered, ' generally he 5 s 
an early bird airley to bed and airley to rise yes, he 's 
the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he 
went out a-peddling, you see, and I don't see what 
on airth keeps him so late, unless, maybe, he can't sell 
his head.' 

' Can't sell his head ? What sort of a bamboozingly 
story is this you are telling me ? ' getting into a tower- 
ing rage. ' Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this 
harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday 
night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head 
around this town ? ' 

' That 's precisely it,' said the landlord, ' and I told 
him he couldn't sell it here, the market 's overstocked.' 

' With what ? ' shouted I. 

' With heads, to be sure ; ain't there too many heads 
in the world ? ' 

' I tell you what it is, landlord,' said I, quite calmly, 
' you 'd better stop spinning that yarn to me I 'm not 
green.' 

6 Maybe not, ' taking out a stick and whittling a tooth- 
pick, ' but I rayther guess you '11 be done brown if that 
'ere harpooneer hears you a-slanderin' his head.' 



22 MOBY-DICK 

' I '11 break it for him/ said I, now flying into a passion 
again at this unaccountable farrago of the landlord's. 

' It 's broke a 'ready,' said he. 

' Broke/ said I ' broke, do you mean ? ' 

' Sartain, and that 's the very reason he can't sell it, 
I guess.' 

' Landlord/ said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. 
Hecla in a snow-storm, 'landlord, stop whittling. You 
and I must understand one another, and that too without 
delay. I come to your house and want a bed ; you tell 
me you can only give me half a one ; that the other half 
belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this har- 
pooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you persist in telling 
me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending 
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling toward the man 
whom you design for my bedfellow* a sort of connection, 
landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the 
highest degree. I now demand of you to speak out and 
tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I 
shall be in all respects safe to spend the night with him. 
And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay that 
story about selling his head, which if true I take to be 
good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I 've 
no idea of sleeping with a madman ; and you, sir, you 
I mean, landlord, you, sir, by trying to induce me to do 
so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to a 
criminal prosecution.' 

' Wall/ said the landlord, fetching a long breath, 'that 's 
a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and 
then. But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have 
been tellin' you of has just arrived from the South Seas, 
where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads 
(great curios, you know), and he 's sold all on 'em but 
one, and that one he 's tryin' to sell to-night, cause to- 
morrow 's Sunday, and it would not do to be sellin' 



THE SPOUTER-INN 23 

human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to 
churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him 
just as he was goin' out of the door with four heads strung 
on a string, for all the airth like a string of inions.' 

This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable 
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had 
no idea of fooling me but at the same time what could 
I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a Saturday 
night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a 
cannibal business as selling the heads of dead idolaters ? 

' Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a danger- 
ous man.' 

' He pays reg'lar, 5 was the rejoinder. ' But come, 
it 's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning 
flukes it 's a nice bed : Sail and me slept in that 'ere 
bed the night we were spliced. There 's plenty room for 
two to kick about in that bed ; it 's an almighty big bed 
that. Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam 
and little Johnny in the foot of it. But I got a-dreaming 
and sprawling about one night, and somehow, Sam got 
pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm. 
Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do. Come along here, 
I '11 give ye a glim in a jiffy ' ; and so saying he lighted a 
candle and held it toward me, offering to lead the way. 
But I stood irresolute ; when looking at a clock in the 
corner, he exclaimed, ' I vum it 's Sunday you won't 
see that harpooneer to-night ; he 's come to anchor some- 
where come along then ; do come ; won't ye come ? ' 

I considered the matter a moment, and then upstairs 
we went, and I was ushered into a small room, cold as a 
clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a prodigious bed, 
almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to 
sleep abreast. 

' There,' said the landlord, placing the candle on a 
crazy old sea-chest that did double duty as a wash-stand 



24 MOBY-DICK 

and centre table ; ' there, make yourself comfortable 
now, and good night to ye.' I turned round from eyeing 
the bed, but he had disappeared. 

Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. 
Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny 
tolerably well. I then glanced round the room ; and 
besides the bedstead and centre table, could see no other 
furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four 
walls, and a papered fire-board representing a man striking 
a whale. Of things not properly belonging to the room, 
there was a hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the 
floor in one corner ; also a large seaman's bag, containing 
the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk. 
Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish-hooks 
on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon stand- 
ing at the head of the bed. 

But what is this on the chest ? I took it up, and held 
it close to the light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried 
every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory con- 
clusion concerning it. I can compare it to nothing but 
a large door-mat, ornamented at the edges with little 
tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills 
round an Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in 
the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South 
American ponchos. But could it be possible that any 
sober harpooneer would get into a door-mat, and parade 
the streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise ? 
I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, 
being uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a 
little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer had 
been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit 
of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a 
sight in my life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry 
that I gave myself a kink in the neck. 

I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced 



THE SPOUTER-INN 25 

thinking about this head-peddling harpooneer, and his 
door-mat. After thinking some time on the bedside, I 
got up and took off my monkey-jacket, and then stood 
in the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my 
coat, and thought a little more in my shirt -sleeves. But 
beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed as I was, 
and remembering what the landlord said about the har- 
pooneer 's not coming home at all that night, it being so 
very late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my 
pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light 
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of 
heaven. 

Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or 
broken crockery, there is no telling, but I rolled about a 
good deal, and could not sleep for a long time. At last 
I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a 
good offing toward the land of Nod, when I heard a 
heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light 
come into the room from under the door. 

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, 
the infemal head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and 
resolved not to say a word till spoken to. Holding a 
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head 
in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without 
looking toward the bed, placed his candle a good way 
off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began 
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I 
before spoke of as being in the room. I was all eagerness 
to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while 
employed in unlacing the bag 's mouth . This accomplished, 
however, he turned round when, good heavens ! what a 
sight ! Such a face ! It was of a dark, purplish, yellow 
colour, here and there stuck over with large, blackish- 
looking squares. Yes, it 's just as I thought, he 's a 
terrible bedfellow ; he 's been in a fight, got dreadfully 



26 MOBY-DICK 

cut, and here he is, just from the surgeon. But at that 
moment he chanced to turn his face so toward the light, 
that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at 
all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were stains 
of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make 
of this ; but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. 
I remembered a story of a white man a whaleman too 
who, falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by 
them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of 
his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adven- 
ture. And what is it, thought I, after all ! It 's only 
his outside ; a man can be honest in any sort of skin. 
But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, 
that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely 
independent of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it 
might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning ; 
but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man into 
a purplish-yellow one. However, I had never been in 
the South Seas ; and perhaps the sun there produced 
these extraordinary effects upon the skin. Now, while 
all these ideas were passing through me like lightning, 
this harpooneer never noticed me at all. But, after some 
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling 
in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and 
a sealskin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the 
old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New 
Zealand head a ghastly thing enough and crammed it 
down into the bag. He now took off his hat a new 
beaver hat when I came nigh singing out with fresh 
surprise. There was no hair on his head none to speak 
of, at least nothing but a small scalp -knot twisted up on 
his forehead. His bald purplish head now looked for 
all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the^stranger 
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out 
of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner. 



THE SPOUTER-INN 27 

Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out 
of the window, but it was the second floor back. I am 
no coward, but what to make of this head-peddling purple 
rascal altogether passed my comprehension. Ignorance, 
js^the parent^QJJear, and being completely nonplussed 
and confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now 
as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who 
had thus broken into my room at the dead of night. In 
fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough 
just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory 
answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him. 

Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, 
and at last showed his chest and arms. As I live, these 
covered parts of him were checkered with the same 
squares as his face ; his back, too, was all over the same 
dark squares ; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' 
War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. 
Still more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of 
dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young 
palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some 
abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whale- 
man in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian 
country. I quaked to think of it. A peddler of heads too 
perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might take 
a fancy to mine heavens ! look at that tomahawk ! 

But there was no time for shuddering, for now the 
savage went about something that completely fascinated 
my attention, and convinced me that he must indeed be 
a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or 
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, 
he fumbled in the pockets, and produced at length a 
curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back, 
and exactly the colour of a three-days-old Congo baby. 
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost 
thought that this black manikin was a real baby pre- 



28 MOBY-DICK 

served in some similar manner. But seeing that it was 
not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like 
polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but 
a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now 
the savage goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing 
the papered fire -board, sets up this little hunchbacked 
image, like a ten-pin, between the andirons. The chimney 
jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that 
I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little 
shrine or chapel for his Congo idol. 

I now screwed my eyes hard toward the half-hidden 
image, feeling but ill at ease meantime to see what was 
next to follow. First he takes about a double handful 
of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places them 
carefully before the idol ; then laying a bit of ship -biscuit 
on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled 
<the shavings into a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after 
many hasty snatches into the fire, and still hastier with- 
drawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching 
them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the 
biscuit ; then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, 
he made a polite offer of it to the little negro. But the 
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at 
all ; he never moved his lips. All these strange antics 
were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from 
the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song 
or else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during 
which his face twitched about in the most unnatural 
manner. At last, extinguishing the fire, he took the idol 
up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his 
grego pocket as carelessly as if he were a sportsman 
bagging a dead woodcock. 

All these queer proceedings increased my uncomf ortable- 
ness, and seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of 
concluding his business operations, and jumping into bed 



THE SPOUTER-INN 29 

with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before 
the light was put out, to break the spell in which I had 
so long been bound. 

But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say 
was a fatal one. Taking up his tomahawk from the table, 
he examined the head of it for an instant, and then hold- 
ing it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed 
out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment 
the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, toma- 
hawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I 
sang out, I could not help it now ; and giving a sudden 
grunt of astonishment he began feeling me. 

Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled 
away from him against the wall, and then conjured him, 
whoever or whatever he might be, to keep quiet, and let 
me get up and light the lamp again. But his guttural 
responses satisfied me at once that he but ill compre- 
hended my meaning. 

' Who-e debel you ? ' he at last said ' you no speak-e, 
dam-me, I kill-e.' And so saying the lighted tomahawk 
began flourishing about me in the dark. 

4 Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin ! ' shouted I. 
' Landlord ! Watch ! Coffin ! Angels ! save me ! ' 

1 Speak-e ! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e ! ' 
again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings 
of the tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about 
me till I thought my linen would get on fire. But thank 
heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room 
light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him. 

4 Don't be afraid now,' said he, grinning again. ' Quee- 
queg here wouldn't harm a hair of your head.' 

' Stop your grinning,' shouted I, ' and why didn't you 
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal ? ' 

' I thought ye know'd it ; didn't I tell ye, he was 
a-peddlin' heads around town ? but turn flukes again 



30 MOBY-DICK 

and go to sleep. Queequeg, look here you sabbee me, 
I sabbee you this man sleepe you you sabbee ? ' 

' Me sabbee plenty,' grunted Queequeg, puffing away 
at his pipe and sitting up in bed. 

' You gettee in/ he added, motioning to me with his 
tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side. He 
really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and 
charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment. For 
all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely- 
looking cannibal. What 's all this fuss I have been 
making about, thought I to myself the man ? s a human 
being just as I am : he has just as much reason to fear 
me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a 
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian. 

'Landlord,' said I, 'tell him to stash his tomahawk 
there, or pipe, or whatever you call it ; tell him to stop 
smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him. But I 
don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me. It 's 
dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured.' 

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and 
again politely motioned me to get into bed rolling over 
to one side as much as to say, I won't touch a leg of ye. 

' Good night, landlord,' said I, ' you may go.' 

I turned in, and never slept better in my life. 






CHAPTER IV 

THE COUNTERPANE 

UPON waking next morning about daylight, I found 
Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and 
affectionate manner. You had almost thought I had 
been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full 
of odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles ; and 
this arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable 
Cretan labyrinth of a figure, no two parts of which were 
of one precise shade owing, I suppose, to his keeping 
his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his 
shirt-sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times 
this same arm of his, I say, looked for all the world like 
a strip of that same patchwork quilt. Indeed, partly 
lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could 
hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues 
together ; and it was only by the sense of weight and 
pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me. 
My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain 
them. When I was a child, I well remember a somewhat 
similar circumstance that befell me ; whether it was a 
reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The 
circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some 
caper or other I think it was trying to crawl up the 
chimney, as I had seen a little sweep do a few days 
previous ; and my stepmother, who, somehow or other, 
was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed 
supperless, my mother dragged me by the legs out 
of the chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was 
only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June, the 

31 



32 MOBY-DICK 

longest day in the year in our hemisphere. 1 felt dread- 
fully. But there was no help for it, so upstairs I went 
to my little room in the third floor, undressed myself as 
slowly as possible so as to kill time, and with a bitter 
sigh got between the sheets. 

I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire 
hours must elapse before I could hope for a resurrection. 
Sixteen hours in bed ! the small of my back ached to 
think of it. And it was so light too ; the sun shining 
in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the 
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. 
I felt worse and worse at last I got up, dressed, and 
softly going down in my stockinged feet, sought out my 
stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet, be- 
seeching her as a particular favour to give me a good 
slippering for my misbehaviour ; anything indeed but con- 
demning me to lie abed such an unendurable length of 
time. But she was the best and most conscientious of 
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For 
several hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great 
deal worse than I have ever done since, even from the 
greatest subsequent misfortunes. At last I must have 
fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze ; and slowly 
waking from it half steeped in dreams I opened my 
eyes, and the before sunlit room was now wrapped in 
outer darkness. Instantly I felt a shock running through 
all my frame ; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was 
to be heard ; but a supernatural hand seemed placed 
in mine. My arm hung over the counterpane, and the 
nameless, unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which 
the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my bedside. 
For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen 
with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my 
hand ; yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one 
single inch, the horrid spell would be broken. I knew 